README.md, before:


# cfn-api-gateway-restapi


## Purpose

AWS CloudFormation does not support AWS API Gateway. This is a Lambda-backed custom resource to add the [AWS API Gateway's RestApi](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/api-reference/resource/rest-api/) to CloudFormation.

This package on NPM: https://www.npmjs.com/package/cfn-api-gateway-restapi


## Implementation

This Lambda makes use of the Lambda-Backed CloudFormation Custom Resource flow module, `cfn-lambda` ([GitHub](https://github.com/andrew-templeton/cfn-lambda) / [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cfn-lambda)).

## v0.0.X

CloudFormation Custom resources are notoriously difficult to test due to their highly connected nature. I have extensively manually tested this resource and use it in my own projects, but I am in the process of getting it up to 100% code coverage via integration tests and unit tests. The `cfn-module` this module depends on *is* 100% covered.

## Usage

  See [`./example/cfn.template.json`](./example/cfn.template.json) for a sample CloudFormation template. The example uses `Condition` statements, `Parameters`, and dynamic `ServiceToken` generation fully.


    "ApiLogicalIdInResourcesObject": {
      "Type": "Type": "Custom::ApiGatewayRestApi",
      "Properties": {
        "ServiceToken": "arn:aws:lambda:<cfn-region-id>:<your-account-id>:function:<this-deployed-lambda-name>",
        "Name": "StringNameOfApi",
        "BaseApiId": "10 char alphanum ID for API (will clone API from this ID).",
        "Description": "Plain freetext description."
      }
    }


  *Updating BaseApiId will require Replacement*


## Installation of the Resource Service Lambda

#### Using the Provided Instant Install Script

The way that takes 10 seconds...
    
    # Have aws CLI installed + some profile $W_IAM_PERMS with Lambda and IAM perms.
    $ (
        cd $REPO;
        export AWS_PROFILE=$W_IAM_PERMS;
        chmod +x deploy/instant.sh;
        deploy/instant.sh;
      );


You will have this resource installed in every supported Region globally!


![Insta-Deploy](./example/insta-deploy.png)


#### Using the AWS Console

... And the way more difficult way.

*IMPORTANT*: With this method, you must install this custom service Lambda in each AWS Region in which you want CloudFormation to be able to access the `ApiGatewayRestApi` custom resource!

1. Go to the AWS Lambda Console Create Function view:
  - [`us-east-1` / N. Virginia](https://console.aws.amazon.com/lambda/home?region=us-east-1#/create?step=2)
  - [`us-west-2` / Oregon](https://console.aws.amazon.com/lambda/home?region=us-west-2#/create?step=2)
  - [`eu-west-1` / Ireland](https://console.aws.amazon.com/lambda/home?region=eu-west-1#/create?step=2)
  - [`ap-northeast-1` / Tokyo](https://console.aws.amazon.com/lambda/home?region=ap-northeast-1#/create?step=2)
2. Zip this repository into `/tmp/ApiGatewayRestApi.zip`

  `$ cd $REPO_ROOT && zip -r /tmp/ApiGatewayRestApi.zip;`

3. Enter a name in the Name blank. I suggest: `CfnLambdaResouce-ApiGatewayRestApi`
4. Enter a Description (optional).
5. Toggle Code Entry Type to "Upload a .ZIP file"
6. Click "Upload", navigate to and select `/tmp/ApiGatewayRestApi.zip`
7. Set the Timeout under Advanced Settings to 10 sec
8. Click the Role dropdown then click "Basic Execution Role". This will pop out a new window.
9. Select IAM Role, then select option "Create a new IAM Role"
10. Name the role `lambda_cfn_api_gateway_restapi` (or something descriptive)
11. Click "View Policy Document", click "Edit" on the right, then hit "OK"
12. Copy and paste the [`/example/rolepolicy.json`](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/andrew-templeton/cfn-api-gateway-restapi/master/example/rolepolicy.json) document.
13. Hit "Allow". The window will close. Go back to the first window if you are not already there.
14. Click "Create Function". Finally, done! Now go to [Usage](#usage) or see [the example template](./example/cfn.template.json). Next time, stick to the [`./deploy/instant.sh`](./deploy/instant.sh) script.




#### Miscellaneous

##### Collaboration & Requests

Submit pull requests or Tweet [@ayetempleton](https://twitter.com/ayetempleton) if you want to get involved with roadmap as well, or if you want to do this for a living :)


##### License

[MIT](./License)


##### Want More CloudFormation or API Gateway?

Work is (extremely) active, published here:  
[Andrew's NPM Account](https://www.npmjs.com/~andrew-templeton)

Commit message:

Update to v0.1.3, add in utilization of npm run cfn-lambda-deploy

README.md, after:


# cfn-api-gateway-restapi


## Purpose

AWS CloudFormation does not support AWS API Gateway. This is a Lambda-backed custom resource to add the [AWS API Gateway's RestApi](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/api-reference/resource/rest-api/) to CloudFormation.

This package on NPM: https://www.npmjs.com/package/cfn-api-gateway-restapi
This package on GitHub: https://www.github.com/andrew-templeton/cfn-api-gateway-restapi


## Implementation

This Lambda makes use of the Lambda-Backed CloudFormation Custom Resource flow module, `cfn-lambda` ([GitHub](https://github.com/andrew-templeton/cfn-lambda) / [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cfn-lambda)).


## Usage

  See [`./example.template.json`](./example.template.json) for a sample CloudFormation template. The example uses `Condition` statements, `Parameters`, and dynamic `ServiceToken` generation fully.


    "ApiLogicalIdInResourcesObject": {
      "Type": "Type": "Custom::ApiGatewayRestApi",
      "Properties": {
        "ServiceToken": "arn:aws:lambda:<cfn-region-id>:<your-account-id>:function:<this-deployed-lambda-name>",
        "Name": "StringNameOfApi",
        "BaseApiId": "10 char alphanum ID for API (will clone API from this ID).",
        "Description": "Plain freetext description."
      }
    }


  *Updating BaseApiId will require and trigger CloudFormation Resource Replacement*


## Installation of the Resource Service Lambda

#### Using the Provided Instant Install Script

The way that takes 10 seconds...
    

    # Have aws CLI installed + some profile $W_IAM_PERMS with Lambda and IAM perms.
    $ npm run cfn-lambda-deploy


You will have this resource installed in every supported Region globally!


#### Using the AWS Console

... And the way more difficult way.

*IMPORTANT*: With this method, you must install this custom service Lambda in each AWS Region in which you want CloudFormation to be able to access the `ApiGatewayRestApi` custom resource!

1. Go to the AWS Lambda Console Create Function view:
  - [`us-east-1` / N. Virginia](https://console.aws.amazon.com/lambda/home?region=us-east-1#/create?step=2)
  - [`us-west-2` / Oregon](https://console.aws.amazon.com/lambda/home?region=us-west-2#/create?step=2)
  - [`eu-west-1` / Ireland](https://console.aws.amazon.com/lambda/home?region=eu-west-1#/create?step=2)
  - [`ap-northeast-1` / Tokyo](https://console.aws.amazon.com/lambda/home?region=ap-northeast-1#/create?step=2)
2. Zip this repository into `/tmp/ApiGatewayRestApi.zip`

    $ cd $REPO_ROOT && zip -r /tmp/ApiGatewayRestApi.zip;

3. Enter a name in the Name blank. I suggest: `CfnLambdaResouce-ApiGatewayRestApi`
4. Enter a Description (optional).
5. Toggle Code Entry Type to "Upload a .ZIP file"
6. Click "Upload", navigate to and select `/tmp/ApiGatewayRestApi.zip`
7. Set the Timeout under Advanced Settings to 10 sec
8. Click the Role dropdown then click "Basic Execution Role". This will pop out a new window.
9. Select IAM Role, then select option "Create a new IAM Role"
10. Name the role `lambda_cfn_api_gateway_restapi` (or something descriptive)
11. Click "View Policy Document", click "Edit" on the right, then hit "OK"
12. Copy and paste the [`./execution-policy.json`](./execution-policy.json) document.
13. Hit "Allow". The window will close. Go back to the first window if you are not already there.
14. Click "Create Function". Finally, done! Now go to [Usage](#usage) or see [the example template](./example.template.json). Next time, stick to the instant deploy script.




#### Miscellaneous

##### Collaboration & Requests

Submit pull requests or Tweet [@ayetempleton](https://twitter.com/ayetempleton) if you want to get involved with roadmap as well, or if you want to do this for a living :)


##### License

[MIT](./License)


##### Want More CloudFormation or API Gateway?

Work is (extremely) active, published here:  
[Andrew's NPM Account](https://www.npmjs.com/~andrew-templeton)
